Success is a product of an individual’s achievements measured against one’s own expectations. All too

often we make the mistake of evaluating one’s own success by the measurements of outsiders. We let

family, friends, school, work, culture, and society dominate our thoughts and beliefs, and ultimately our

time. We don’t give credence to what we want to do; we give credence to the ideas around us. That’s

not to say that other people, places, cultures, etc. don’t shape us. They do, and they should. Our

surroundings are inevitably an important part of who we are, as they make up the being that we are and

have become. But that’s it, we are still our own being, and influenced or not, we are a product of our

own experiences. We have our own beliefs, ideas, wants, and desires. It is a scary thing to produce a

goal when we are not living the means of our life. Rather, it is the passion that we pursue that can

define a goal. It is the passion that we embody that will give us fulfillment. It is better, then, to follow

your passion, or if not available, then to find it. It is the finding it where I want to focus.

All too often we are left wanting, without any idea of what it actually is that we are wanting for. We are

paraded through from activity to activity, from obligation on. We start off in a system and do our best to

find our place. We go to school where we find ourselves herded along in an environment that others

have deemed appropriate. We get pressured into getting good grades so we can get into more school,

better school. Most of us jump right into something we feel we are supposed to like or do. We graduate

without any sense of purpose and eventually give in to it all just for something to do. We put our head

down; hoping that working hard will somehow reveal to us what we want to do. We get a fuzzy picture

of what we want, but dammit it probably means more school. We are now fully entrenched in the cog

and the system. We are getting closer and closer to replacing our real passion, with cheap imitations.

We hit the end of it all and there’s only one thing left to do. We settle.

But we don’t have to settle. Of course, for a lot of us, we don’t really have an idea of what we want to

do until we are doing something that we don’t want to do. This is natural, and it plays into how our

experiences and the things around us influence and shape us. We don’t have to put our head down and

run despite not knowing where we are going. We don’t have to do more than what we need to. This

might seem obvious to people, but I assure you it is not. We shouldn’t work excessively hard in the

hopes that it will somehow get us what we want, or worse, advance us towards ill-conceived goals. We

should instead put in the bare minimum in order to achieve relative success. This is easily demonstrated

through examining high school education.

High schoolers would be lucky if they knew what they wanted to do a month in advance, let alone for

the rest of their life. Further, there is a very low likelihood that an individual will finish as the

valedictorian. The only real requirement of high schoolers is to figure out what they might be interested

in. We live in a very competitive world and so it is paramount for a student to understand what options

lay in-front of them. For example, high schoolers need to know what college or university programs they

might be interested in and what requirements those programs demand. Let’s say that the minimum

grade for such a program is 90%. Because we know that an individual is very unlikely to finish as the

valedictorian, and we also know the minimum requirement of 90%, then it follows that student’s should

put in the bare minimum effort to achieve 90%. In this context, there is virtually no benefit of getting

91%, 92%, 93%, etc. Instead, the student would find it more beneficial to spend time perfecting a craft,

or figuring out what they want to do.

It follows that in everything where your goals are not necessarily your own, or when your activities don’t

demonstrate your passion, that you should direct your energy towards finding your passion. It is

necessary that an individual who wants to be truly successful must exploit the environment that they

live in. They must challenge the designs of what they do or why. They must forget the goals of the

others, and relentlessly pursue their passion. It is then, and only then that an individual will find true

success. It is then that somebody finds purpose, and it is only when you can live your passion that you

can be truly satisfied, truly happy.